>> Richard Feldman: Other
one is derived data.
So let's say we have this
timestamp on our server,
of one of our articles, and
that's what's stored in the database,
and that's sort of the original
source of truth, right?
This is data that lives on the server, and
if anybody disagrees with the server,
they're wrong.
The server is right.
Let's general trend with
client server interaction.
It's usually if the server things
one thing on the client things on
the different thing.
Generally speaking to
the servers gonna win, so
if you're gonna have to
pick one source of truth.
It's usually best to assume
the servers is correct.
So it's coming back to the server and
says, Come here cross the wire
in ISO-8601 string format.
So it's a string that is gonna
come across and some JSON blog and
we're going to decode that into
a Time.Posix, and from there,
we're going to translate that,
we're going to render it,
into the end user as a nicely formatted
humanly readable string in the client.
And then finally,
we're going to put that string in Html and
we're going to see something like this.
So all of this is derived data.
We have one source of truth at the root
here which is the database Timestamp and
everything else is derived from that.
This ISO-8601 string can be derived from
having this, given that we can derive
this, given that we derive this and
given that we derive this.
So there is really no motivation for
an example like this for
us to have multiple sources of truth for
this.
We're just saying yeah database
is the source of truth and
everybody is just saying tell me
a thing that came from the database and
I will translate it into one additional
step, or translate it one step further.
So as far as like where
these things actually live,
the database time stamp itself
is hidden from the client.
The first thing that we actually
see is this decoded ISO-8601 string
coming across the wire in the browser.
And we take that,
we convert it through Time.Posix,
from the HTTP request we
store in the the model.
And then we calculate that string in the
view, that nicely formatted human-readable
string says, May 5th,
2018, or whatever it was.
And then of course, the HTML message
is also gonna be calculated in view.
Now here we have an example of drive data.
But we actually do unfortunately,
regrettably end up with multiple
sources of truth anyway.
So here, when we're storing this in
the model this is now a client cache of
something where the source
of truth is the database.
And because we're caching it,
cache invalidation is a well known,
hard problem in computer science.
This can get out of date.
Now in the case of a database timestamp,
it really shouldn't be changing.
If it's an actual timestamp
of when the post is created.
But if it's a timestamp of when the post
was most recently edited, that could
actually change on the database, and
now our cached version is out of date.
Unless we have some sort of web socket
set up to live update every single time
the database changes,
we're probably just stale.
Like the user's looking at this timestamp
on the screen, and it's just wrong.
If you wanna know the ultimate source
of truth for what that timestamp is,
it's on the database, and it's
a different value than the one we've got.
So again, we have ended up with multiple
sources of truth, they are competing.
We are rendering the one from the client
cache, but actually the one that we want
to trust is the one in the database,
which we don't have access to.
So we actually end up catching
a lot of things in the model.
In general, any time something
comes in from a HTTP request,
we're probably caching it in the view.
This is just a reality of
doing client-side development.
I mean, the reason we cache things is for
performance.
Imagine if every single
time you wanted to render,
first you had to go to
the server with an HTTP request.
Get everything back and
then render based on that.
It will be incredibly slow.
Unusably slow.
So of course we're gonna cache things.
But we have to be aware that when we
are caching things, we have to deal with
caching validation which means some of the
time we're potentially going to be wrong.
This is sort of an accepted cost of
doing business in web development or
in any kind of client development.
But it is something that's
important to be aware of.
This can be a source of bugs.
>> Richard Feldman: Here we have some
intermediate representations of this
derived data.
This is a lot less error prone.
Like if we're saying,
okay, we accept the model as the source
of truth that we're gonna render from.
Which in the HTML application
sort of goes without saying.
Then each of these can
be derived from those.
And as we saw in the previous slide, we
can just put those in the view function.
And then there's sort of transient.
They are intermediate representations
on the way to the final representation
that we want, which was the actual
done nodes on the screen.
So the string which is
derive from the model and
this HTML was derive from the string
are both intermediate representations
on a way to the final form.
And it's important that we don't store
those intermediate representations.
As competing sources
of truth in our model.
Unless we really, really have to.
The reason we might have
to is again performance.
Then for some reason this operation here,
we're calculating the intermediate
representation is really expensive and
it's slowing everything down.
Then yeah, maybe we have to cache that and
the model too.
Separately from the original source
of truth that it comes from.
But then that point where cache of
a cache of the original source of truth
which is the database time stamp,
and the more times we do that
the more convening source of the truth we
have, the more potential for bugs we have.
So the moral of the story is number one,
we're probably stuck we having that
client side cache of the model and
the fact that it potentially out of
date with the underlying server.
That's something we're just going to have
to live with for performance reasons.
But we don't need to make it worse than,
that unless we actually have
another performance problem.
By default, if you have the option of
rendering something in the view and
then discarding it afterwards rather than
recording it in the model, always do that.
If it's derived data and it's something
that comes from the model and
nothing else, great, put it in the view
and don't have it be anywhere else.
So if you're ever wondering,
hey, where should this logic go?
If the answer could be in the view,
start with that.
And only if you have a performance
problem should you move it to update and
then store the result in the model.